Theocratic projects are largely built by volunteers from all over the world
Speaking different languages from different cultural backgrounds with different work practices
Things that could divide and create barriers
One of the biggest challenges for me has been the language
Above all, the accents and the way people speak
The ways of construction are a bit different to what I'm used to
That can create a challenge. You might be used to doing something one way
And then here we do it differently because of different circumstances
Initially we thought that with the similar language things would be the same
But even with the similar language we learn that there are differences
And how we speak and the things that we say
One of the things that I think probably got us when we first arrived was the greeting
We're used to just saying hello and a lot of times we would be greeted with
Hey, you're okay
After being asked that several times in the same day you begin to question
Whether or not you actually are right
That's just how they say hello here
In the culture we're from people are a bit more straightforward
And to the point when they're given instructions which they're not being rude
It's just the way we do it there
Here I learned that it's nice to ask how are you, how's your day, how was your weekend maybe
And then get to the point
It's something that I've gotten used to and I really like it because you get to know the brothers that you work with
There are different ways for saying the same thing
No, I'm smiling please
And the differences aren't really all that big since you don't know it
It becomes a challenge to kind of understand it first but makes it a little more exciting and a little fun
Is that one?
Yes
Oh, thank you, a wrench
It might be a way of doing things at home that I'm used to and that I've been learning in school
And then here we do it differently
It's just a matter of obedience and you do as you're instructed
And at first you make questions like why are we doing it differently
But if you're patient and you wait then you realize that you've just learned another way of doing something
Give me something that is really nice to see
Is that when I try to learn the language the brothers help me and that's a real blessing
Us taking our time to kind of learn about the culture has really helped us to kind of understand why things are different
And then when you understand why they're different it doesn't really bother you
You kind of understand your brothers and sisters and it makes it easier for you to love them and be positive
It realized that we are the ones that we have to adapt to the new culture, the new nation
We have to have Christ mentality, he came to serve not to be served
Spiritual things keep us united
To not see the negatives in other cultures, accents and word practices
Although there may be deadlines, constraints keeping our spirituality up is of the utmost importance
Our overseers reminded us of three non-negotiable things
Our meeting attendance, the film ministry and our family worship
Spirituality is everything when it comes to overcoming challenges because if you don't have a spiritual view of things then you will struggle
Continues to be more evident is that if we take care of our spirituality then Jehovah will take care of the rest
The work will get done
So the key to unity here on site is that everyone is working on the fruit of the spirit
We need to be patient, kind, loving, long-suffering
They exhibit these qualities that really pursue peace and it makes it easy, it makes it fun
You realize, you know what, we're just working with family
And of course, Jehovah's spirit is clearly shown in everything that we do
Having all of the different brothers and sisters and the different cultures is special and it really does help you grow
When I worked before, differences were an issue
It's beautiful to see, however, that here it doesn't matter where you are from
What job you are doing, we are all on the same level, we are all equal
It makes you think of revelations every night where the Scripture talks about people of every tribe and nation and tongue
We're one family and instead of just reading about it when we're here we experience it
When Nimrod was building the Tower of Babel, Jehovah used language to halt the project
Yet today, working on a project with so many different languages and cultures
Jehovah is unifying them to make his project successful